+++
title = "A Semi-Coherent Review of PyCon Canada 2012"
date = "2012-11-27T17:20:00"
tags = [ "code", "tech" ]
+++

Two weeks ago I was foolish enough to take a few days to escape from
university life long enough to go to [PyCon Canada](http://pycon.ca), a
nice little conference in Toronto that can only be described with words
that end with exclamation marks: *fantastic!*, *awesome!*, etc. I’m no
veteran of tech conferences — this was, I think, the ninth I’ve ever
attended^[1](#fn1)^ — so I have a narrow view of what conferences can
look like.

This was, however, the first non-student conference I’ve been to without
it being related to work. That was *nice* — I could just relax and watch
the talks and hang out with fellow Python enthusiasts like my friend
(and former co-worker) [Jon “VK” Villemaire-Krajden](http://j-vk.com).
That also drew attention to something I noticed about the conference: it
was delightfully non-commercial, as far as conferences go. Sure, there
were sponsors, and the sponsors said things at the microphone, and there
was an area where you could schmooze with the sponsors — but on the
whole, it felt like a conference of enthusiasts and open source people,
not people trying to sell things.

### People who spoke words

[Jessica
McKellar](http://pyvideo.org/video/1560/saturday-morning-keynote)
started things off with a talk on fostering a welcoming open source
community. Near the beginning of her talk, she told a story about her
time as an instructor at Hacker School: they took a few whiteboards and
wrote questions on them like “What are your fears as a programmer?” She
showed a slide with a bunch of students’ answers and it *really*
resonated with me.

Sometimes programming is hard because it is hard, and sometimes
programming is hard because of seemingly silly, trivial emotions.
Sometimes programming is hard because you’re afraid of breaking
something. Or because you’re afraid of looking stupid on the internet.
Or because you’re afraid of looking stupid *off* the internet.
Recognizing these things and talking about these things is more
important than it sounds. To me, seeing this really smart open source
hacker on a stage talk about these things and admit that they, too, are
afraid of not being smart enough is so much more encouraging than just
knowing that I *can* contribute to open source.

[Michael Feathers](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8gkrE6q9Tzw) spoke
about functional programming. I’ve been drinking the FP Kool-Aid for a
while now, so it wasn’t a mind-blowing talk for me; but he had a way
with words and said what other people have been saying, but *better*.
I’m not sure what his exact words are, but he said something along the
lines of “these functional things are cool because you need to learn
them only once,” that is, a lot of those functional programming tools
that people talk about are pre-packaged general, common algorithms.
Sure, you can get the job done in two nested for-loops, but maybe using
someone *else*’s for-loops will work out better?

[Fernando
Perez](http://pyvideo.org/video/1605/science-and-python-retrospective-of-a-mostly-s)
ended the conference on a high note with his talk on the IPython
Notebook, a browser-based tool for Python programming. The IPython
Notebook is a bit like a REPL, a bit like an IDE, but the main idea is
that it’s *in the browser*. That means if you write code that generates
an image, it can show the image alongside your code. It means that if
you have code that outputs a protein, the result can be an interactive
3D model. This project is so cool that I’ve wasted spent more time than
I care to admit playing with it since the conference.

### Code Sprints!

I wasn’t in town for long — and I wanted to spend some time with friends
— but I did manage to drop by the code sprints for a while. The sprints
were at the [Ladies Learning Code](http://ladieslearningcode.com/) space
near Honest Ed’s, a lovely little building with a pretty decent cafe in
the basement.

Sleep deprivation might have done strange things to me, but I’m *pretty
sure* these things happened:

-   Pizza with beet slices instead of pepperoni (awesome)

-   I had a really nice chat with Fernando Perez about IPython. And then
    he got me a cortado, which was incredibly sweet of him.

-   After I thanked Diana Clark for putting on the conference and
    generally being awesome, *she gave me a hug*. I swear to Guido, she
    almost made me cry.

Although I wasn’t around to see much, it does sound like a lot got done
at the sprint. I’ll be sure to stick around longer next time.

### Things that were not good about this conference

I really don’t have anything bad to say about how the conference was
run. Really. Sure, the venue was cold the first day. The wireless was a
bit patchy here and there. But whatever. Did I mention my ticket cost
$25?

Personally, I think all “code sprints” should be called “Happy Fun Best
Friends Coding Club But Also Testing and Documentation and Learning
Extravaganza,” but sports and athletics metaphors are, unfortunately,
thoroughly entrenched in the software world and I suppose I’m not going
to win this one. *Sigh*.

Oh, and it may not surprise you to hear that I detected a substantial
dose of Python elitism. I like Python too, but can we all try not to
alienate PHP and Java developers? Couldn't hurt, anyways.

### Would I go again? Would I bring a friend?

Yes and yes.

* * * * *

1.  Woah. When did that happen?[↩](#fnref1)


