+++
title = "Shows I've been watching"
date = "2015-07-12T22:32:00"
tags = [ "tv" ]
+++

Earlier this year I learned to knit. Part of the appeal for me is that it's very easy to sit down, knit some stitches, and make progress. It's possible to screw up so badly you have to start over, but for the most part it's difficult to take large steps backward. Unlike with programming, it's hard to knit a scarf so badly it causes active harm to you and the people around you. If you're patient, you'll eventually have a scarf or a sweater, and no matter how many stiches you accidentally added in the wrong places, you still have something that represents a tonne of work to be proud of. Also you are now warmer than you were before, which is kind of cool.

One nice thing about knitting is that you can do it while you watch television. Some shows I've been watching lately:

* *The West Wing*
* *Adventure Time*, which is hilarious and cuter than a show has any right to be.
* *Bomb Girls*, which follows the stories of the workers of a Toronto munitions factory during WWII. Like *The Bletchley Circle*, it focuses on parts of the war effort that are not usually explored in war movies, viz., the home front. It also spends some time on the [darker parts of Canadian history](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Italian-Canadian_internment), which I appreciate.
* *Sense8*, the new Netflix show from The Wachowskis and J. Michael Straczynski. [This show is great][aphyr]. And hey, some of it takes place in SF which is kind of neat.

(This fluff post is brought to you by a few weeks of travel and strep throat. Pro-tip: don't get strep throat.)

[aphyr]: https://twitter.com/aphyr/status/617943823243546625
